Add security foundations section (#487)
bitwarden/contributing-docs: docs/security/requirements.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Requirements

The requirements in this section are organized hierarchically, with top-level requirements defining
the core rules and obligations that must be met, serving as broad objectives for Bitwarden's
security model. Sub-requirements expand on these by addressing specific scenarios, exceptions, or
clarifications, and may override their parent requirement when explicitly stated. Sibling

> requirements at the same level must remain independent and free of contradictions.

Author: **thought:** Might be nice to align this to an industry standard like ISO/IEC/IEEE 29148, but there's only so much we can do in a markdown document

## Vault data (VD)

:::warning Draft - Early version

This section is still in its early stages and does not yet reflect current or future standards.

:::

1. Vault data **MUST** be protected _at rest_.

   - a. The Client **MUST** encrypt vault data stored on disk.

>    - b. The Client **MUST** use the UserKey to encrypt vault data stored on the Server.

Author: This part is still a draft and needs work. When it comes to keys I've added a section further down, but I'm going to rely on key management to fill it out

>    - b. The Client **MUST** use the UserKey to encrypt vault data stored on the Server.

Author: Resolving to let KM address this in upcoming PRs

   - c. The Client **SHOULD** ensure that no mechanisms exists such that vault data may be stored to
     disk unencrypted without user consent. This includes cases where it is not the Client itself
     that stores the data to disk.
   - d. The Client **MUST** encrypt any vault data derivatives that can be used to re-create the
     original form or are considered to be vault data on their own.
   - e. The Client **MUST NOT** store any artifacts (e.g. encryption keys) on disk such that the
     encrypted vault data can be decrypted without any additional information provided by the User.
     - i. The Client **MAY** store such artifacts if given an _informed and explicit consent_ by the
       User.
   - f. The Client **MUST NOT** store any artifacts (e.g. encryption keys) such that the vault data
     can be decrypted by the Server, regardless of consent.

2. Vault data **MAY** be unprotected while _in use_.

   - a. The Client **MAY** decrypt all vault data during vault unlock.

>      - i. The Client **SHOULD** minimize the quantity of decrypted vault data.

Author: thought: we could make this more stringent 

```suggestion
     - i. The Client **SHOULD** limit decrypted data to the records actively in use by the user.
```

   - b. The Client **MAY** leave vault data encrypted after unlock.

>    - c. The Client **MUST** ensure that unprotected data does not linger when no longer _in use_.

Author: Hmmm, I think `is not present in memory` is what I'm looking for here, but that makes this requirement hard to implement. Maybe we should change it to a `SHOULD` at the same time

```suggestion
   - c. The Client **SHOULD** ensure that unprotected data is not present in memory when no longer _in use_.
```

I still think this requirement will have a pretty large impact if adopted since it tends to discourage our huge caches, but having no caches is the current approach in the SDK so hopefully we won't have to prioritize any additional work just for this

>    - c. The Client **MUST** ensure that unprotected data does not linger when no longer _in use_.

Reviewer: I agree with this; being more specific with the requirement while loosening the language a little (MUST -> SHOULD) seems like a good balance given that we currently decrypt everything at once in clients.

>    - c. The Client **MUST** ensure that unprotected data does not linger when no longer _in use_.

Author: Fixed!

   - 2. The Client **SHOULD** use a trusted channel when the transmission crosses process
        boundaries.
   - 3. The Client **MUST** use a trusted channel if there is a risk that the data can be
        eavesdropped by unintended parties.
   - 4. The Client **MUST** certify that the receiver is within the Bitwarden secure environment.
   - 5. The Client **MUST** use a trusted channel when the transmission crosses device boundaries.

4. Vault data **MUST NOT** be shared without an _informed and explicit consent_ by the User.

   - 1. The Client **MAY** trust the OS to gather consent.
   - 2. The Client **MAY** augment the OS when the consent process is not sufficiently clear or
        explicit.
   - 3. The Client **SHOULD** guarantee that the third party is the receiver.

## Encryption keys (EK)

:::warning Draft - Early version

This section is still in its early stages and does not yet reflect current or future standards.

:::

1. The UserKey **MUST** have 256 bits of security.
2. The UserKey **MUST** be protected _at rest_.
3. The UserKey **MAY** be unprotected while _in use_.
4. The UserKey **MUST** be protected while _in transit_.

> 5. The UserKey **MUST NOT** be shared.

Author: You're actually the second person to give me this exact comment so there is definitely room for improvement here. Account recovery and emergency access is not "sharing" according to the definition: 

> **Data sharing**
> The controlled process in which data leaves the Bitwarden secure environment unprotected. As a consequence the guarantees made by this document will no longer apply. The receiving party may or may not have its own guarantees.

> 5. The UserKey **MUST NOT** be shared.

Reviewer: Interesting. Given that "sharing" has a common use, maybe there is a more specific term that can be used here? (Maybe "export" - or would that be confused with a vault export?)

Alternatively, it's only used a couple of times - maybe you remove the definition and be explicit each time: "The UserKey MUST NOT leave the Bitwarden secure environment in an unprotected state."

---

As a separate question - does this document have anything to say about when data is exchanged/accessed between users then? EA and Account Recovery are within the Bitwarden secure environment, but it has security implications.

> 5. The UserKey **MUST NOT** be shared.

Author: Both very good suggestions. I think we might need the definition just to make the document easier to read, but you are right that it might be mixed up with vault export. Still think its worth it though, I'll update it when I get a chance!

> 5. The UserKey **MUST NOT** be shared.

Author: Renamed sharing -> exporting. Added a new definition for sharing that matches EA

## Authentication tokens (AT)

:::warning Draft - Early version

This section is still in its early stages and does not yet reflect current or future standards.

:::

> 1. The authentication tokens MUST be protected at rest if the client provides a mechanism for secure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The authentication tokens **MUST** be protected at rest if the client provides a mechanism for secure
```

   storage.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The authentication tokens **SHOULD** be protected in transit.
```

Author: Added! But why SHOULD and not MUST?

   - 5. The Client **MUST** use a trusted channel when the transmission crosses device boundaries.

4. Vault data **MUST NOT** be exported without an _informed and explicit consent_ by the User.

   - 1. The Client **MAY** trust the OS to gather consent.
   - 2. The Client **MAY** augment the OS when the consent process is not sufficiently clear or
        explicit.
   - 3. The Client **SHOULD** guarantee that the third party is the receiver.

## Encryption keys (EK)

:::warning Draft - Early version

This section is still in its early stages and does not yet reflect current or future standards.

:::

1. The UserKey **MUST** have 256 bits of security.
2. The UserKey **MUST** be protected _at rest_.
3. The UserKey **MAY** be unprotected while _in use_.
4. The UserKey **MUST** be protected while _in transit_.
5. The UserKey **MUST NOT** be exported.

## Authentication tokens (AT)

:::warning Draft - Early version

This section is still in its early stages and does not yet reflect current or future standards.

:::

1. The authentication tokens **MUST** be protected at rest if the client provides a mechanism for
   secure storage.

> 2. The authentication tokens **SHOULD** be protected in transit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The authentication tokens **MUST** be protected in transit.
```

Author: Fixed 👍
